---
title: "La Noche Boca Arriba"
date: 2025-10-21
permalink: /posts/2025/10/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Writing
---

Time and time again, a short story that I read in my 7th grade Spanish class reemerges in my mind. "La Noche Boca Arriba" by Julio Cortazar. I will now summarize it blasphemously in English (although I remember we read this in Spanish in class).

The protagonist is a man who gets into a motorcycle accident, finding himself injured and wakes up in a hospital bed. His consciousness floats in and out between his dreams and reality. His dream is shockingly vivid and he is running away from *los Motecas* (which is a fun play on words, since the Spanish word for motorcycle is *moto*). Eventually, he finds himself tied down onto a rock and being carried up to a platform to be offered as a human sacrifice. In the final moments, he realizes that the true "reality" is in fact in the *Moteca* world, just when he is about to die as the executioner comes at him with a knife.

Although this story is pretty gory and dark, I think the superposition feeling described in this story is close to how I feel after spending my summer in Germany, and then returning to the US.

In Germany, I felt a freedom that I had never experienced before in the US. Although I have lived alone for many years before in the US, starting in undergrad and throughout my years in grad school, this was different. 
I experienced a groundedness, a practicality that imbued the small European city and the people there. A slowness in the air, a linger in the step, a chance to breathe deeply. 
As a girl raised to always gun for the next thing, it was a new feeling. I began to feel like an empty figure in a kid's coloring book, with the colors slowly being filled in. A little pink here, a dash of green there. 

I became more aware about the aspects that made me unique as a person. Instead of being the "studious Asian" girl, I found myself assuming different aspects of my identity that I had not embodied in quite some time. The American. The ballerina. The pianist. I guess just me. Olivia.

When I think about my summer there, I don't know which life is real anymore. Like in the story of "La Noche Boca Arriba," I wonder which life is the dream. Or if there truly is a "real" life. Maybe this is something we can choose.

I guess this blog post is another form of my accessing another part of me that has laid dormant for some time. The writer. 

It is the best tool I have to distill strong emotions and reflection. To encapsulate feelings before they slip away like water through my fingers. The human mind is designed to forget pain. But I think there is a dark beauty in remembering the spectrum of emotions, because that is the human experience.

And so this a snapshot of the roiling thoughts in my mind and the whispers in my heart. A girl's search for meaning in this strange world. An ode to the beauties of humanity and all the pieces of myself (discovered and undiscovered) that are all worth finding. 